Start: December 2015
Years Active: 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023

Co-Founder and Director of the first Pittsburgh coding boot camp, focusing on helping under-represented groups enter the tech workforce. Created state-licensed curriculum in back-end and front-end development, built partnerships with local foundations and companies, and successfully got more than 80% of graduating students a job in tech within a year of graduation. Contracted with local companies to give students real world experience and keep base tuition costs lower. Project manager and tech lead, guiding groups to successfully delivering dozens of products that have been used by tens of thousands of users, drastically reduced worker time through automation, and allowed multiple start-ups to gain hundreds of thousands in funding for further development based on MVPs produced by students. 

Key Projects 

- Taught and mentored more than 200 students, successfully helping them get jobs as developers, working with companies to find appropriate positions and with students to prepare them for interviews. This included instructional design for the classroom, building in students a strong understanding of a large range of topics from algorithms and data structures to database design to reactive programming design to front end design and development, and keeping students up on current developer trends. Students in my class had a greater than 90% graduation rate and more than 70% hire rate within 6 months of graduation, with an average salary increase of 20,000 per year. 
    

- Designed and built, with student teams, an event scheduling app that has been white labelled for multiple events per year in Pittsburgh and elsewhere. The backend is written in C# MVC and designed for non-technical users to create their own events and customize the app fully for their event. The front end is written in React Native with regular updates with AppCenter as the CI/CD pipeline. The app handles events with tens of thousands of users over a single day or weekend, allowing users to favorite upcoming acts and be notified when they should go to specific rooms and stages, with hundreds of thousands to millions of datapoints being recorded during a single event so event producers can have a live view of what is trending within the crowd. 
    
- Designed and managed students building a physical building security app that unlocks doors via phone app, using OAuth, MVC, React Native, and NodeJS along with physical relays, electronic locks, and microcontrollers. This is currently in place in a 22,000 square foot building with near 24 hours a day traffic and over 40 people with access without the need for physical keys or the possibility of the door being left unlocked accidentally. 
    
- Built and tested a Machine Learning / Image Recognition based app to help people with visual disabilities to play games with standard playing cards without requiring any special purchases of braille cards or altering of cards for people to play together. 